setup/WSLg_PHPStorm.md, before:

# Running PHPStorm / JetBrains with native WSLg implementation

The WSL does support graphical user interfaces with the WSLg directly without the need of an extra XServer installed. And
as the environment has a lot more tools there is maybe the need to utilize them. The following description shows how to
install the JetBrains Toolbox and how to utilize it directly within the WSL.

## Setup JetBrains Toolbox within WSL

```bash
wget https://download.jetbrains.com/toolbox/jetbrains-toolbox-2.2.1.19765.tar.gz

sudo apt install libcups2 libpangocairo-1.0-0 libatk-adaptor libxss1 libnss3 libxcb-keysyms1 x11-apps libgbm1 libxdamage1 libxkbcommon
sudo apt install libgtk-3-dev libfuse2 libxi6 libxrender1 libxtst6 mesa-utils libfontconfig libgtk-3-bin

tar -xvzf jetbrains-toolbox-2.2.1.19765.tar.gz
mv jetbrains-toolbox-2.2.1.19765 jetbrains

# Should now be executable
$ jetbrains/jetbrains-toolbox
```

To activate JetBrains licenses it is required to be logged in. The Toolbox can't really open a new browser fenster to
do the login, even there is a default browser installed in the WSL. So there is the need to click on the "troubleshoot"
button below the login button. This opens up an input box and gives a link where one can request the auth token for
themself. C&P the code to the textbox after manually getting it with the given link and the login is accomplished,

The setup of JetBrains tools should then work with the toolbox.

I also created btw. changed the PHPStorm alias in `~/.aliases`.

```bash
alias phpstorm="/home/dzunke/.local/share/JetBrains/Toolbox/apps/phpstorm/bin/phpstorm.sh > /dev/null 2>&1"
```

## Troubleshoot

### Markdown preview is empty

If the Markdown preview functionality within an installed JetBrains IDE is not working there is a specific package
missing. After it is installed the IDE should be restarted and then the preview should show the rendered markdown.

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install openjfx
```

Commit message:

Add setup info about toolbox and phpstorm shortcuts to be in windows

setup/WSLg_PHPStorm.md, after:

# Running PHPStorm / JetBrains with native WSLg implementation

The WSL does support graphical user interfaces with the WSLg directly without the need of an extra XServer installed. And
as the environment has a lot more tools there is maybe the need to utilize them. The following description shows how to
install the JetBrains Toolbox and how to utilize it directly within the WSL.

## Setup JetBrains Toolbox within WSL

```bash
wget https://download.jetbrains.com/toolbox/jetbrains-toolbox-2.2.1.19765.tar.gz

sudo apt install libcups2 libpangocairo-1.0-0 libatk-adaptor libxss1 libnss3 libxcb-keysyms1 x11-apps libgbm1 libxdamage1 libxkbcommon
sudo apt install libgtk-3-dev libfuse2 libxi6 libxrender1 libxtst6 mesa-utils libfontconfig libgtk-3-bin

tar -xvzf jetbrains-toolbox-2.2.1.19765.tar.gz
mv jetbrains-toolbox-2.2.1.19765 jetbrains

# Should now be executable
$ jetbrains/jetbrains-toolbox
```

To activate JetBrains licenses it is required to be logged in. The Toolbox can't really open a new browser fenster to
do the login, even there is a default browser installed in the WSL. So there is the need to click on the "troubleshoot"
button below the login button. This opens up an input box and gives a link where one can request the auth token for
themself. C&P the code to the textbox after manually getting it with the given link and the login is accomplished,

The setup of JetBrains tools should then work with the toolbox.

I also created btw. changed the PHPStorm alias in `~/.aliases`.

```bash
alias phpstorm="/home/dzunke/.local/share/JetBrains/Toolbox/apps/phpstorm/bin/phpstorm.sh > /dev/null 2>&1"
```

Also there are shortcuts available but in the wrong directory. To get those shortcuts known to Windows they have to
be copied into the correct directory. As the target directory is only available to root users there is sudo access
needed to do it.

```bash
sudo cp $HOME/.local/share/applications/* /usr/share/applications
```

After this the shortcuts are directly available in the windows start with a `(Ubuntu)` appendix.

## Troubleshoot

### Markdown preview is empty

If the Markdown preview functionality within an installed JetBrains IDE is not working there is a specific package
missing. After it is installed the IDE should be restarted and then the preview should show the rendered markdown.

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install openjfx
```
